README.md, before:

![WiM](wim.png)


# Project Title

One Paragraph of project description goes here

### Prerequisites

What things you need to install the software and how to install them

```
Give examples
```

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Installing

A step by step series of examples that tell you have to get a development env running

Say what the step will be

```
Give the example
```

And repeat

```
until finished
```

## Building and testing

Explain required node version

`node -v` needs to be {version}

Explain how to run the debugging 'watch' script for this repo, if applicable

Explain how to run unit tests, if applicable

## Development Workflow

Explain the desired workflow. Workflow may deviate from the instructions below depending on the projects needs.

**Instructions below are for developers actively working on the repo.**

An issue will be assigned to you via Github. Your workflow begins after assignment:

1. Create a branch with the issue number as the branch name (e.g. `134`)
2. Move issue into 'In Progress' column of project board
3. Do the work
    - While you work, you may wish to have the app running with live reload. Run `ng serve` to do so.
4. Write tests for the work
    - This is a critical step. STNWeb2 uses the [Jasmine library](https://jasmine.github.io/) for unit testing. Please refer there for docs and examples. Also refer to the [Angular testing guide](https://angular.io/guide/testing).
5. Run the tests to be sure they all pass and that the overall thresholds are met: `ng test`
6. Be sure the app runs in the browser without errors: `ng serve`
7. Ensure the app builds without error: `ng build`
    - If any of the checks above fail, please fix the issue. Ask for help if needed.
8. Once all checks have passed and you are ready to submit a Pull Request, update the changelog with a brief description of what your work added, changed, or fixed. There is an Unreleased section at top with subheadings for each category. Edit the file CHANGELOG.md found at project root.
9. Add the changed files `git add .` and commit `git commit -m '[your commit message here]'` you commit message should reference the issue number and include a very brief description of the work.
10. **Pull from `dev`**
    - Run `git pull origin dev`. This is a critical step. It ensures your Pull Request is synced with the latest work in the main `dev` branch. If you are lucky, it will auto-merge. Otherwise, you may have to resolve conflicts between your commit and what currently exists in dev. Please be careful with this step so no code is lost - ask for help if you are unsure what to do.
    - If manually merging, you will have changed files so you will need to add and commit once more (see step 9).
11. Push your committed and synced branch to the remote repo (Github): `git push origin [your branch name]`
12. Submit Pull Request (PR) to merge your issue branch into `dev`
    - Automated checks will be run against your PR. Failure of any of these will mean you need to re-commit to your branch to update your PR with the fix. A colleague will review your work and either approve it or request changes. Upon approval of the PR your issue will be automatically moved to the 'In Dev Branch' column of the project board.

Move onto next assigned issue and start back at step 1.

## Deployment

Add additional notes about how to deploy this on a live system. **Do not include any credentials, IP addresses, or other sensitive information**

## Built With

* [Angular](https://angular.io/) - The main web framework used
* [Clarity UI](https://vmware.github.io/clarity/) - Top-level UI framework if you have one
* [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) - Dependency Management
* [Others](https://www.npmjs.com/) - Any other high-level dependencies

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on the process for submitting pull requests to us. Please read [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) for details on adhering by the [USGS Code of Scientific Conduct](https://www2.usgs.gov/fsp/fsp_code_of_scientific_conduct.asp).

## Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning. For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](../../tags).

Advance the version when adding features, fixing bugs or making minor enhancement. Follow semver principles. To add tag in git, type git tag v{major}.{minor}.{patch}. Example: git tag v2.0.5

To push tags to remote origin: `git push origin --tags`

When a new release (or version) occurs, change the Unreleased section of the [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) into a new release version section and start a clean Unreleased section.

*Note that your alias for the remote origin may differ.

## Authors

* **[Jordan Doe](PROFILE_PAGE_URL_HERE)**  - *Lead Developer* - [USGS Web Informatics & Mapping](https://wim.usgs.gov/)
* **[Jessie Smith](PROFILE_PAGE_URL_HERE)** - *Developer* -  [USGS Web Informatics & Mapping](https://wim.usgs.gov/)

See also the list of [contributors](../../graphs/contributors) who participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.

## Suggested Citation
In the spirit of open source, please cite any re-use of the source code stored in this repository. Below is the suggested citation:

`This project contains code produced by the Web Informatics and Mapping (WIM) team at the United States Geological Survey (USGS). As a work of the United States Government, this project is in the public domain within the United States. https://wim.usgs.gov`

## Scientific Citations
This project implements methodology or uses data from the following reports and data releases. See the [Scientific_Documentation.md](Scientific_Documentation.md) file for details.

<!-- Delete section if not applicable -->
<!-- If there are too many citations to reasonably list, provide some information about the data or where citations can be found -->

`Doe, J.E., Smith, A.B., and Doe, J.M., 2022, Title of the report: U.S. Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report XXXX–XXXX, XX p., https://doi.org/XX.XXXX/sirXXXXXXXX.`

`Doe, J.E., Smith, A.B., and Doe, J.M., 2022, Data release for described data: U.S. Geological Survey data release, https://doi.org/XX.XXXX/XXXXXXXX.`

## Acknowledgments

* Hat tip to anyone who's code was used
* Inspiration Note

## About WIM
* This project authored by the [USGS WIM team](https://wim.usgs.gov)
* WIM is a team of developers and technologists who build and manage tools, software, web services, and databases to support USGS science and other federal government cooperators.
* WIM is a part of the [Upper Midwest Water Science Center](https://www.usgs.gov/centers/upper-midwest-water-science-center).

Commit message:

Created repo from wimpo. Removed some unneeded files. Added main.py and started to get FastAPI to work. Still need to figure out how to add the parameters for dist and get_flowlines.

README.md, after:

![WiM](wim.png)


# NLDI Polygon Query

This is a python package for querying the Network Linked Data Index for hydrographic data. The input data to this package is a GeoJSON FeatureCollection, and so is the output. The package will parse the input FeatureCollection, separate multipolygons and make Get requests to the NLDI for catchments and flowlines (depending on the input parameters) that overlap with the query polygons. Also, a trace downstream distance can be set in order to return flowlines a set distance downstream for the query polygons.

### Prerequisites

What things you need to install the software and how to install them

```
Give examples
```

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Installing

A step by step series of examples that tell you have to get a development env running

Say what the step will be

```
Give the example
```

And repeat

```
until finished
```

## Building and testing

Explain required node version

`node -v` needs to be {version}

Explain how to run the debugging 'watch' script for this repo, if applicable

Explain how to run unit tests, if applicable

## Development Workflow

Explain the desired workflow. Workflow may deviate from the instructions below depending on the projects needs.

**Instructions below are for developers actively working on the repo.**

An issue will be assigned to you via Github. Your workflow begins after assignment:

1. Create a branch with the issue number as the branch name (e.g. `134`)
2. Move issue into 'In Progress' column of project board
3. Do the work
    - While you work, you may wish to have the app running with live reload. Run `ng serve` to do so.
4. Write tests for the work
    - This is a critical step. STNWeb2 uses the [Jasmine library](https://jasmine.github.io/) for unit testing. Please refer there for docs and examples. Also refer to the [Angular testing guide](https://angular.io/guide/testing).
5. Run the tests to be sure they all pass and that the overall thresholds are met: `ng test`
6. Be sure the app runs in the browser without errors: `ng serve`
7. Ensure the app builds without error: `ng build`
    - If any of the checks above fail, please fix the issue. Ask for help if needed.
8. Once all checks have passed and you are ready to submit a Pull Request, update the changelog with a brief description of what your work added, changed, or fixed. There is an Unreleased section at top with subheadings for each category. Edit the file CHANGELOG.md found at project root.
9. Add the changed files `git add .` and commit `git commit -m '[your commit message here]'` you commit message should reference the issue number and include a very brief description of the work.
10. **Pull from `dev`**
    - Run `git pull origin dev`. This is a critical step. It ensures your Pull Request is synced with the latest work in the main `dev` branch. If you are lucky, it will auto-merge. Otherwise, you may have to resolve conflicts between your commit and what currently exists in dev. Please be careful with this step so no code is lost - ask for help if you are unsure what to do.
    - If manually merging, you will have changed files so you will need to add and commit once more (see step 9).
11. Push your committed and synced branch to the remote repo (Github): `git push origin [your branch name]`
12. Submit Pull Request (PR) to merge your issue branch into `dev`
    - Automated checks will be run against your PR. Failure of any of these will mean you need to re-commit to your branch to update your PR with the fix. A colleague will review your work and either approve it or request changes. Upon approval of the PR your issue will be automatically moved to the 'In Dev Branch' column of the project board.

Move onto next assigned issue and start back at step 1.

## Deployment

Add additional notes about how to deploy this on a live system. **Do not include any credentials, IP addresses, or other sensitive information**

## Built With

* [Angular](https://angular.io/) - The main web framework used
* [Clarity UI](https://vmware.github.io/clarity/) - Top-level UI framework if you have one
* [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) - Dependency Management
* [Others](https://www.npmjs.com/) - Any other high-level dependencies

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on the process for submitting pull requests to us. Please read [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) for details on adhering by the [USGS Code of Scientific Conduct](https://www2.usgs.gov/fsp/fsp_code_of_scientific_conduct.asp).

## Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning. For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](../../tags).

Advance the version when adding features, fixing bugs or making minor enhancement. Follow semver principles. To add tag in git, type git tag v{major}.{minor}.{patch}. Example: git tag v2.0.5

To push tags to remote origin: `git push origin --tags`

When a new release (or version) occurs, change the Unreleased section of the [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) into a new release version section and start a clean Unreleased section.

*Note that your alias for the remote origin may differ.

## Authors

* **[Jordan Doe](PROFILE_PAGE_URL_HERE)**  - *Lead Developer* - [USGS Web Informatics & Mapping](https://wim.usgs.gov/)
* **[Jessie Smith](PROFILE_PAGE_URL_HERE)** - *Developer* -  [USGS Web Informatics & Mapping](https://wim.usgs.gov/)

See also the list of [contributors](../../graphs/contributors) who participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.

## Suggested Citation
In the spirit of open source, please cite any re-use of the source code stored in this repository. Below is the suggested citation:

`This project contains code produced by the Web Informatics and Mapping (WIM) team at the United States Geological Survey (USGS). As a work of the United States Government, this project is in the public domain within the United States. https://wim.usgs.gov`

## Scientific Citations
This project implements methodology or uses data from the following reports and data releases. See the [Scientific_Documentation.md](Scientific_Documentation.md) file for details.

<!-- Delete section if not applicable -->
<!-- If there are too many citations to reasonably list, provide some information about the data or where citations can be found -->

`Doe, J.E., Smith, A.B., and Doe, J.M., 2022, Title of the report: U.S. Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report XXXX–XXXX, XX p., https://doi.org/XX.XXXX/sirXXXXXXXX.`

`Doe, J.E., Smith, A.B., and Doe, J.M., 2022, Data release for described data: U.S. Geological Survey data release, https://doi.org/XX.XXXX/XXXXXXXX.`

## Acknowledgments

* Hat tip to anyone who's code was used
* Inspiration Note

## About WIM
* This project authored by the [USGS WIM team](https://wim.usgs.gov)
* WIM is a team of developers and technologists who build and manage tools, software, web services, and databases to support USGS science and other federal government cooperators.
* WIM is a part of the [Upper Midwest Water Science Center](https://www.usgs.gov/centers/upper-midwest-water-science-center).
